---
layout: post
title: Home resources planning
tags:
  - HRP
  - Development logbook
categories:
  - Home resources planning
  - Portfolio
---

Introduction to development

---

Hi, how are you? I'm Eduardo Messias, and this is my new video series, in wich i'll share with you this new idea that i had. I don't know if this is going to work or not, but it's a try. First, let me speak a little bit about myself. I am a developer since 2008, i work in the corporative business of ERP systems implementation, nothing extraordinary. An ERP is a kind of software, and these three letters are actually an abbreviation for enterprise resources planning, or in other words, a kind of system that helps the companies to manage their resources, and by resources you can presume not only the material ones, but the human and financial as well, among others. Anyway, my routine is to move from one project to another installing, configuring, customizing and integrating this software in the companies, basically. Besides my job, i am a multiplatform mobile app development enthusiast and academically speaking i make part of the game developers society and hopefully i'll soon have my master degree in this area. 

I am passionate about technology, and much more when it comes to open-source technologies. That's why my idea is to build an open-source software here, live, online, in a collaborative way, keeping the code in a public github repo. I want to use my experience in ERP systems, but not to build another ERP.  Instead, i'll make a variation of this kind of software, that helps people to manage their own personal resources. A kind of software that we can call HRP, that stands for home resources planning. As a company, we also have, in our personal life, resources, such as our house, car, finance, budget, inventory, shopping lists, academic history, calendars, documents and also family (why not?). I've been reading for while now materials regarding this subject and i believe i'm ready to start building this software. 

My idea here is to share all this building process with you, count with your help as well, as in implementation-time i'll be also learning how to plan, design and code the HRP. 

This is the introdutory video, that's why i am speaking more than doing any other thing, and i'm sorry for that, the next will be much more interactive, i promise. See you there! 
